Presentation

things to speak out direcly...

Good evening everyone

kya kisine ye socha!! k Aaj kuchh naya sikhne milega maza ayega ??? like Amir khan in 3 idiots :) 
ok lets get figure it out together

I don't want to make this session boring so I will try to make it more interactive and I want your support and suggestion 
so that we all can get more out of it 

Right so Before I start anyting I would like to give a quick introduction about me
I know most of you guys already know me very well but for those who don't

So Hello Everyone My name is Nirav Prajapati 
I have a around 11 years of exp in and I have been working in indianic for like 1 and half year as a Sr. Software Engineer
in Php Laravel team 


Disclaimer


I know many of you already know this things which I am gonna teach or tell you but I just want to share with you so it may be helpful to you based on my experience and best knowledge

So, lets see how it can be useful to us




Few Terms which interrelate each other, 
VSCode shortcuts and some useful extensions and 
some coding tips and Extra Credits

DOD
Unit Testing - test cases
Student Syndrom
Prevention is better than cure
Trust

DOD?
Definition of Done (DoD)

DoD is the primary reporting mechanism for team members.

DoD can includes 
Feature has been developed 
Unite Tested 
Meets all requirements of perticular feature or module 

The Dod should be same for each team member at different levels based on their roles and responsiblity 
here we gonna talk about the DoD for developers 

Student Syndrom
	XYZ can you please read this for me? thank you 

    - Student syndrome refers to planned procrastination, when, for example, a student will only start to apply themselves to an assignment at the last possible moment before its deadline. 
	This eliminates any potential safety margins and puts the person under stress and pressure.



Unit Testing 

What is unit testing? 
How many of you are doing unit testing?

we can do unit test in 2 ways,
- By writting php unit test 
- Manually which we normally do 

What you do in unit test?

There should be some standard point which we can list down for unit test and for that we can one document of unit test case 

Lets see some of the common thing we should test,
Designing test - checking the web page should look same in some common browsers
spelling or grammatical errors
Broken links and images 
If there is any validation error then the information filled by the user should be there
mandatory field validations with appropriate error messages 
sending emails 
proper database entries 


Unit testing Advantages
- Improves Quality of Code by Identifies defect that may have come up 
- Finds Software Bugs Early
- Since the bugs are found early, unit testing helps reduce the cost of bug fixes.


VSCode shortcuts and some useful extensions




We are using many different kind of code editors but are we really getting most out of it?

Dreamviewer, Rapid php, Netbeans, sublime Text, VSCode, Phpstorm, Atom and many more available in market...

Difference between editor and IDEs....



Even we can make a checklist(some general points and some spcific to technology and projects) for any deployment so we can not forget anything...

- VSCode shortcuts, extensions etc...VSCode short cuts plugins

Some coding Guidelines and Tips

some coding tips
Refactor code,
Validations,
Multiple Insert/Update main tables and related tables ,
File uploads,
Api Calls,
Email sending,
and many more things...

Reusable Service classes or Traits or Common functions...

Refactoring code
what you have to do in refactor is look at your code and see where it can be improved 








Some General Guide-lines 


code snippets...If you have make some functions or logical code which you think can be useful in future projects then make some document or file and store that small code snippet because we as developer forgets things easily![not sure about others but i do] and what we forget is in which project, which section/module which file we have done something... so better to store that very code snippet in some seperate files

Similarly, make excel sheet for important information about project like credentials or any important points

We should make some default htaccess file code/content which can cover some common aspect like we discuss in previous session that what we need to make sure on production like we miss info.php or .zip or .sql file etc...accessing directory structure or say browsing folders on server...







alias or shortcuts
art = "php artisan"


- Laravel specific code guide lines 
	data_get data_set optional
	- if else statement, ternery operator, beyond in laravel data_set 
	- $cond ?? null ;
Some laravel specific helper methods,

optional
data_get - date_set 
array_wrap

Laravel concepts fundamentals like service classes, observers,
migrations
data_get, data_set, optional
migration -> same type length for id and foreign key



suggestion or Advice

I would like to suggest to all of you that whenever you try to learn some new technology like react or angular or 
may be laravel related stuff there are tutorials blog post videos e-books whatever media you use always try to code 
along and practice that would be more effective because if you just watch it then you will definelty understand but 
if you are asked to you know write down some demo or real application then you will find it difficult so whenever 
you learn try to implment together with blog or video you are refering from

Whenever you learn something either by reading blog post or videos, don't just read or watch, code along so you will get thing on hand and memorize as well,
firstly you can code watching it and then try to implement something similar without watching and see what you remember and what not!


Extra Credits
runjs console software
https://runjs.dev/

Whats Next...
Some Laravel specific topics...
superviser


cybercrowd - cyklekraft code review


So that's all I had to say and if any of you have any question then please throw it 

I will share a link of one feedback form which I want all of you to submit so we 
in that you can tell what you can expect to learn in next time which I am able to then i will take it 
and we can plan out next presention or knowledge sharing session which we can


feedback and what to expect 

Thank you for bearing me :) ...




























